Inspex

medium

# Anyone can claim native tokens that are left in the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract.

## Summary
Anyone can call the `vote()` function via `RoundImplementation` contract to claim native tokens that are left in the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract.

## Vulnerability Detail
In the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract, the `vote()` function is called by `RoundImplementation` contract, which allows users to vote for the project.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L430-L439

If a user is using the native token for voting and the decoded `_amount` from the `encodedVotes` parameter is less than the `msg.value` spent by the user, then some native tokens will remain in the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/votingStrategy/QuadraticFundingStrategy/QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol#L55-L77


This will allow the attacker to call the `vote()` function via the `RoundImplementation` contract without sending the token and setting the `_amount` parameter to match the remaining native tokens in the contract. Then, the leftover tokens will be sent to the `_grantAddress`, which is set as the caller's address.

## Impact
An attacker can drain the native tokens that are left in the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L430-L439

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/votingStrategy/QuadraticFundingStrategy/QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol#L55-L77

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Transfer any native token back to the user if the summary value of the `_amount` parameters is less than the `msg.value` that the user spent.