carrot

medium

# Insufficient checks on parameters passed to `vote()`

## Summary
The contract does not do sufficient checks on the parameters passed for voting. This can let users emit false voting events, and steal eth from the voting contract if there are any.
## Vulnerability Detail
The function `vote()` in RoundImplementation.sol lets users vote and send eth to a project they support. This also emits an event, which will probably be displayed on the frontEnd or used for statistics. There are however no checks on the vote function, or on the QuadraticFunding voting contract. The vote function only passes the msg.value amount of eth on to the voting contract.

```solidity
 for (uint256 i = 0; i < encodedVotes.length; i++) {
            /// @dev decode encoded vote
            //@audit sends out raw eth from the contract, even if voter hadnt sent it. Can be used to send eth to themselves, or other tokens
            (
                address _token,
                uint256 _amount,
                address _grantAddress,
                bytes32 _projectId
            ) = abi.decode(
                    encodedVotes[i],
                    (address, uint256, address, bytes32)
                );

            if (_token == address(0)) {
                /// @dev native token transfer to grant address
                // slither-disable-next-line reentrancy-events
                AddressUpgradeable.sendValue(payable(_grantAddress), _amount);
//...
```

The voting contract (in this case, QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol), also has no checks on the vote function. It simply iterates over all the items in the array. This creates a number of issues:

1. `_amount` check: The contract does not check if the `msg.value` passed is equal to the sum of the voting amounts. Thus, if a user passes too much eth, the remaining eth is stuck in the contract. If a user passes too little eth, that user can use up any stuck eth in the contract to their advantage.
2. `_grantAddress` check: The contract does not validate the `_grantAddress` passed. Thus any address can be passed and eth or tokens will be sent there. If an user sends too much eth for the votes and there is some leftover eth in the voting contract, anyone else can vote putting their own address in `_grantAddress` and essentially steal the eth in the contract. This also emits vote events showing votes on non-existing projects.
3. `_projectId` check: There is no check on `projectId`. This means users can vote for a non-existent project id, or a project ID which does not exist yet, and then later create the project Id, and show from events that multiple votes were casted in favour of that. 

## Impact
Any eth stuck in the voting contract can be stolen, there is a lack of safety measures to prevent overspending by users, and fake events can be emitted which can hijack the UI by swarming fake events at no cost.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/votingStrategy/QuadraticFundingStrategy/QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol#L55-L102
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Sanitize the parameters passed to the voting contract:
1. Ensure `msg.value` == sum of _amount
2. Ensure `projectId` exists
3. Create a whitelist of allowed `_grantAddress`