__141345__

medium

# No validation for `_token` in `vote()`

## Summary

The decoded `_token` is not verified in the VotingStrategy contract. If the provided `_token` is different from the right token specified in the round contract, the project or the voters could have some loss.

## Vulnerability Detail

In `QuadraticFundingStrategy.sol#vote()`, there is no validation on the decoded `_token`. 

Imagine, some project use some bot listening to the emitted events to record the voting, but just count the `_amount`. Then some cheap token might be used to trick the voting system by malicious voter. Assume the token should be USDT, which has 6 decimal, but in the `encodedVotes`, the voter provides DAI as `_token`, which has 18 decimal ($100 is 1e8 USDT, but 1e20 DAI). If the project mistakenly accept the `_token` of DAI as USDT, only 1e8 DAI will be treated as $100 like 1e8 USDT. The project could incur some loss. 

Another possibility is the voter made some mistake, overpaid the amount but can not receive deserved voting power. Or even lose the entire voting amount due to the wrong `_token` sent.


## Impact

For some project, the mismatch between the true token and the provided `_token` could be abused to trick the project voting system. The project could suffer loss. Some careless voters might also have loss by sending the wrong token, or received less voting power than deserved.


## Code Snippet

There is no check for the `_token` in `QuadraticFundingStrategy.sol#vote()`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/votingStrategy/QuadraticFundingStrategy/QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol#L55-L102


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Validate that `_token` is the same as the round contract:
```diff
055:   function vote(bytes[] calldata encodedVotes, address voterAddress) external override payable nonReentrant isRoundContract {

058:     for (uint256 i = 0; i < encodedVotes.length; i++) {
059: 
060:       /// @dev decode encoded vote
061:       (
062:         address _token,
063:         uint256 _amount,
064:         address _grantAddress,
065:         bytes32 _projectId
066:       ) = abi.decode(encodedVotes[i], (
067:         address,
068:         uint256,
069:         address,
070:         bytes32

+        require(_token == roundAddress.token());
```
