J4de

high

# The `roundAddress` variable of the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` and `MerklePayoutStrategyImplementation` contract may be preemptively assigned

## Summary

The `roundAddress` variable of the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract may be preemptively assigned.

## Vulnerability Detail

```solidity
// QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyFactory.sol
  function create() external returns (address) {

    address clone = ClonesUpgradeable.clone(votingContract);
    emit VotingContractCreated(clone, votingContract);
    QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation(clone).initialize();

    return clone;
  }
```

The user creates a `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract through the `create` function of the `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyFactory` contract.

```solidity
// QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation.sol
  function initialize() external initializer {
    // empty initializer
  }
```

The `initialize` function of `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` is empty.

```solidity
// IPayoutStrategy.sol
  function init() external {
    require(roundAddress == address(0x0), "roundAddress already set");
    roundAddress = payable(msg.sender);

    // set the token address
    tokenAddress = RoundImplementation(roundAddress).token();

    isReadyForPayout = false;
  }
```

The user can call the `init` function of the `IPayoutStrategy` contract to set the `roundAddress` role.

The problem is that if the user calls the `create` function and the `init` function are not in a transaction, the attacker can preempt the call to `init` and set the `roundAddress` to himself.

The `MerklePayoutStrategyImplementation` contract has the same problem.

## Impact

If the user does not realize that `roundAddress` has been controlled by the attacker and transfers money to the newly created `QuadraticFundingVotingStrategyImplementation` contract, the attacker can call `withdrawFunds` to steal the user's funds.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/allo-protocol/contracts/blob/36dc33762c396660c0a84f6ef7d790f632638e81/contracts/payoutStrategy/IPayoutStrategy.sol#L92-L100

https://github.com/allo-protocol/contracts/blob/36dc33762c396660c0a84f6ef7d790f632638e81/contracts/payoutStrategy/IPayoutStrategy.sol#L92-L100

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It is recommended to assign `roundAddress` in the `initialize` function.