ck

medium

# Project  `OwnerList` allows duplicate owners

## Summary

Project  `OwnerList` allows duplicate owners.

## Vulnerability Detail

When adding a project owner, there is no check to determine if an owner already exists.

```solidity
    function addProjectOwner(uint256 projectID, address newOwner) external onlyProjectOwner(projectID) {
        require(newOwner != address(0) && newOwner != OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL && newOwner != address(this), "PR001");

        OwnerList storage owners = projectsOwners[projectID];

        require(owners.list[newOwner] == address(0), "PR002");

        owners.list[newOwner] = owners.list[OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL];
        owners.list[OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL] = newOwner;
        owners.count++;

        emit OwnerAdded(projectID, newOwner);
    }
```

This can lead to various consequences as demonstrated below:

Assume an owner list as below:

```solidity
OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL =>  SECOND_OWNER
SECOND_OWNER         =>  FIRST_OWNER
FIRST_OWNER          =>   OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL
```

If `SECOND_OWNER` is added to the list again, the list would be as below:

```solidity
OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL =>  SECOND_OWNER
SECOND_OWNER         =>  SECOND_OWNER
FIRST_OWNER          =>   OWNERS_LIST_SENTINEL
```

First issue is that the count would increase to 3 while the list still has 2 owners.
Second issue is that `SECOND_OWNER` points back to itself.

This breaks several functionalities including adding more owners, getting owner count, and removing owners.

There are various variations of issues that can be caused depending on where in the list the duplicated owner is.

Scenarios could even arise where it would not be possible to remove project owners e.g if an owner has left the organiszation or their private key becomes exposed.

## Impact

There are various impacts considering almost all owner related functions would be affected. In addition the `onlyProjectOwner` modifier relies on an accurate owner list. Since projects may have multiple owners, safeguards should be put in place to prevent it.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/projectRegistry/ProjectRegistry.sol#L106-L118

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Add a check to determine whether an address is already an owner before it can be added.