ctrlc03

medium

# A voting strategy and payout strategy initialization can be frontrun

## Summary

The `IVotingStrategy` and `IPayoutStrategy` abstract contracts implement a `init` function which is used to set the `roundAddress` variable. This variable represents the `RoundImplementation` contract associated with the voting/payout strategy. A malicious user might be able to frontrun the initialization of this by calling `init` to be set as the `roundAddress` variable. 

## Vulnerability Detail

The `RoundImplementation` contract is expected to be deployed after the voting strategy and payout strategy contract, as within its `initialize` function two contracts are [initialized](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L254-L258) via the `init` function. However, should the initialization of these two contracts be frontrun by a malicious actor, this initialization function will fail.

## Impact

This could result in the deployer wasting gas fees and having to re-deploy the contract for as many times as needed before the initialization is not frontrun again.

## Code Snippet

* `IPayoutStrategy` [init](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/payoutStrategy/IPayoutStrategy.sol#L92) function.

* `IVotingStrategy` [init](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/votingStrategy/IVotingStrategy.sol#L36) function.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It is recommended that they payout and voting strategy contracts are instead deployed together with the `RoundImplementation` contract, within the `RoundFactory` contract. This way, they could be initialized in the same transaction and would work right off the bat.

