slvDev

high

# setReadyForPayout() can lock all funds

## Summary

The `setReadyForPayout()` function can potentially be blocked (DoS), resulting in the inability to payout funds after the end of a round or loss of funds if the token is native.

## Vulnerability Detail

After the end of a round, the `setReadyForPayout()` function is called to transfer funds to the `payoutStrategy` contract.

Based on the logic of the `setReadyForPayout()` function, if `roundFeeAmount > 0`, the `_transferAmount()` function is called, which in turn will call safeTransfer or `Address.sendValue()` if the token is native.

```solidity
function setReadyForPayout() external payable roundHasEnded onlyRole(ROUND_OPERATOR_ROLE) {
    ...
    // deduct round fee
    if (roundFeeAmount > 0) {
      _transferAmount(roundFeeAddress, roundFeeAmount, token);
    }
    ...
}
```

```solidity
function _transferAmount(address payable _recipient, uint256 _amount, address _tokenAddress) private {
    if (_tokenAddress == address(0)) {
      Address.sendValue(_recipient, _amount);
    } else {
      IERC20(_tokenAddress).safeTransfer(_recipient, _amount);
    }
  }
```

If a user with ROUND_OPERATOR_ROLE is hacked or turns out to be malicious, they can successfully block setReadyForPayout() by setting roundFeeAmount > 0 and roundFeeAddress == address(0).
Although another user (if there are multiple) with `ROUND_OPERATOR_ROLE` can later replace the `roundFeeAddress`, a malicious user can frontrun the `setReadyForPayout()` function, always setting roundFeeAmount > 0 and roundFeeAddress == address(0) and lock all funds.

_Since the loss or theft of private keys is the attack vector with the highest amount of losses for 2022, I consider such a situation quite possible._

In the first case, the function will always revert because `safeTransfer` is a wrapper around `ERC20.transfer`, which will revert when trying to send tokens to address(0).

If the token is native (e.g. ETH), the OpenZeppelin `Address.sendValue()` allows sending ETH to address(0), which will result in the complete loss of the native token.

This attack vector is possible because the function does not have a check for address(0).

```solidity
function updateRoundFeeAddress(address payable newFeeAddress) external roundHasNotEnded onlyRole(ROUND_OPERATOR_ROLE) {
  roundFeeAddress = newFeeAddress;
  emit RoundFeeAddressUpdated(roundFeeAddress);
}
```

It is also possible to initialize `roundFeeAddress` equal address(0).

## Impact

If exploited, this vulnerability can lead to funds being locked, loss of native tokens, and frontrunning of the setReadyForPayout() function.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L296-L299

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L462-L464

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L502-L508

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To prevent this attack vector, add a check for `address(0)` in the `updateRoundFeeAddress()`