twicek

high

# Application meta pointer of a project can be set by anybody

## Summary
Anyone can use any other project's hash on their behalf. Doing so, they can receive the funds that should have been received by the project's grant address.

## Vulnerability Detail
Anyone can apply to a round calling `applyToRound` on behalf of another project if they know the corresponding`projectID` hash.
Project IDs are public, therefore anyone will be able to add applications using any `projectID` and with any `newApplicationMetaPtr` values.

Even if the attacker doesn't know the project `projectID` hash in advance, he can front-run the project's transaction and add entries in the applications array before them.

This will result in the round operator not being able to discern legitimate applications from illegitimate ones.

## Impact
Anyone can associate a project's ID to his own metadata pointer which includes the grant address. If an attacker succeeds to pass the application process using his own address as recipient address of the vote, he will receive tokens on behalf of a project.

## Code Snippet
[applyToRound](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-Gitcoin/blob/main/contracts/contracts/round/RoundImplementation.sol#L371-L382)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider requiring accepted projects to sign their project ID hash, so you can check `msg.sender` against the project's address.
If you don't want to require projects to sign, the fix will need to be able to find the legitimate applications among other applications with the same hash (on-chain or off-chain).